# Sujit's 3rd Year Project
What started off as a simple backup and sync repository has now become a showcase for my work, aimed at the casual observer who may not have a background in electrical and electronic engineering.

## Introduction
For a more technical introduction, along with recommendations for further reading, please read my [project initialisation document.](https://spez1998.github.io/3rd-year-project/Deliverables/PID/PID_ela17sm.pdf)

The ultimate aim of all equipment used to reproduce audio is that whatever has been recorded should be played exactly as it was recorded. This is a difficult task to achieve, since nothing that currently exists responds completely evenly across all of the frequencies that it's expected to operate in. This phenomenon of even response across a frequency range is known as linearity. Careful design allows us to come close to linearity - one of the mathematical techniques used is to model the equipment as abstract systems with 'transfer functions' that describe the way the system performs across a frequency range. The art of an engineer building this equipment is to 'control' the system effectively. Controlling the system is the process of feeding a portion of the output back to the input, in order to compensate for errors that have occured, are currently occuring, and will occur.

Loudspeakers, especially subwoofers, aren't very linear - and even worse, they are never controlled in the manner described above (apart from experimental demonstrations). This means that only very expensive models will ever be close to linear, and cheaper systems that we commonly use in our daily lives don't perform well at all.

Thus, the goal of this project is to investigate different methods of controlling loudspeakers that have been conducted experimentally, combine as many of them as possible, and build an inexpensive subwoofer system that responds as well as an expensive model. 

## Where to Begin?
The way that I found to be most appropriate to begin the project was to look at the work conducted by [Siegfried Linkwitz](linkwitzlabs.com). Linkwitz was a visionary in acoustical engineering and his website showcases much of his knowledge and designs. His THOR subwoofer section was of particular note to me - he details the entire process of designing, measuring, and rectifying a subwoofer and its enclosure. Crucially, he provided some spreadsheets with which anyone could input the Thiele/Small parameters (some values that describe the electro-mechanical properties of a loudspeaker) of any subwoofer and would in return receive the equivalent electrical circuit model for it, within a theoretical box of a user-specified size. I sought to understand his process and these spreadsheets, in order to use them for my choice of subwoofer, and to re-write the spreadsheet formulae in MATLAB (Excel graphs aren't as pretty, and I'd rather keep all data processing in one software suite).

## Choosing a Subwoofer
The type of subwoofer that I chose is the dual voice-coil (DVC) subwoofer. These are made by manufacturers to give end-users (typically car audio enthusiasts) flexibility in how to wire the speaker to their amplifier. However, for me, the usefulness of two voice coils is that I can use one voice coil for sensing purposes, and effectively impose zero noise or impedance onto the driving voice coil, and therefore the outputted sound, through my circuits and measuring equipment. This is dependent on the voice coils being exactly the same, which is an impossible expectation. Thus, each coil will have to be tested and the response compared against the other, and corrected for with more circuitry if necessary. The choice of DVC subwoofer was based mainly on availability, price, and documentation - I was looking for something that would arrive soon, cost as little as possible, and was well-documented, with as many Thiele/Small parameters provided as possible. The subwoofer that I found that fell under all of these categroies is the **Pyle PLPW6D**. 

## Milestones
I plan to try and make the repository into a complete showcase for all the work that I will conduct over the coming year. Expect MATLAB and LTSPICE simulations, build pictures, circuit boards, and hopefully a better understanding of loudspeakers!
